---
title: Using VIM
published: true
---


# What is VIM?

If you ever used Linux, Unix, or ever been on a MAC, you may have used VI or VIM. VI was created by Billy Joy in 1976. Later on VIM was created which is the improved version of VI. VIM is a modal text editor with more features and extensions than VI. A modal text editor doesn't need a mouse. You can literally keep your fingers on the keyboard and navigate between the code without taking your fingers off the keyboard.

## Why you should use VIM
A lot of developers have switched over to VIM and are using it as a fully functional IDE. The main reason is the speed of being able to navigate through code without taking your hand off the keyboard to use a mouse.

## Why you might not want to use VIM
Most will get discouraged from using VIM. Mainly because of the learning curve. Everyone is use to using a mouse to navigate through code. With VIM you are only using the keyboard and the only way to actually learn how to use VIM is by forcing yourself to use the shortcuts.

## Shortcut Examples
- h moves the cursor one character to the left.
- j moves the cursor down one line.
- k moves the cursor up one line.
- l moves the cursor one character to the right.
- 0 moves the cursor to the beginning of the line.
- $ moves the cursor to the end of the line.
- G move to the end of the file.
- gg move to the beginning of the file.
- dd delete the line.

Note: These commands only work in command mode. Press 'esp' to go into command mode. Press 'i' to go into insert mode. Insert mode allows you to start typing. 


