---
title: SSCP
published: true
---

# What are MAC architecture models?

MAC architecture models is a framework for IT Systems. The models provide rules for entities or subjects to read or write sensitive data. As of today, there are currently four different MAC architecture models. 

## Bell-LaPadula Model

The Bell-LaPadula model prioritizes confidentiality. It uses two different rules called no read up and no write down.

What this means is that if someone has a top secret security clearance, they can only read top security information and they cannot write anything down to secret information.

Within the Bell-LaPadula model, you are assigning labels to subjects i.e. military personell that have security clearances and to object labels called sensitivity classifications. Objects could be a military top secret tactical server as an example.

Note: The Bell-LaPadula Model is mostly used in the government or military and it is mostly concerned with confidentiality.

## Biba Model

The Biba information model prioritizes information integrity. Basically this is the Bell-LaPadula but it is reversed. No read down, subjects at a certain security level, cannot read objects at a lower security level. So if the subject has a secret security clearance, he/she cannot read unclassified objects. No write up, subjects at a certain security level cannot write a level up from their current security clearance.

Note: The Biba model is used mostly in the business environment and is concerned with integrity. 

## Clark-Wilson Model

The Clark-Wilson Model is concerned with object integrity and separation of duties and enforces well-formed transactions.

## Brewer-Nash Model (Chinese Wall)

Used in many business organizations to prevent conflict of interest. Basically this model separates the different departments within the same business to prevent a conflict of interest. For an example, if a departments information (objects) is classified, then it can only be accessed by one department. Each object within the departments is classified by a Chinese Wall. 
